# Incident: YYYY-MM-DD HH-mm-ss

## Summary

Between 16:18 and 16:35 on 11/27/2024, 5 users were unable to make orders on the JWT Pizza website. There were only 5 users online at the time, so this was considered a global issue. The event was triggered by a change to the pizza factory URL that the server was trying to use to process orders. The target pizza factory URL was changed by a hacker from BYU who was attempting to take down the site. The hacker was allowed access into the system when the developer clicked a suspicious button labelled "I'm ready for chaos!" on a BYU website. 

This URL change caused the order system to fail completely and return a 500 error code every time any user attempted to submit a pizza order. The event was detected by our Grafana dashboard, which alerts the developer in case of an abnormally high number of failed pizza orders. The developer began working on a solution by manually testing the order feature on the website and examining the response from the server, which revealed that the target URL was most likely changed. This was apparent because of an additional parameter called "reportUrl", which returned with the error response. Navigating to the URL that was returned fixed the issue. 

## Detection

The incident was detected right as users began accessing the site on the morning of the 27th. It was detected extremely quickly because of automatic alerts that were set up earlier. The alert alerted the developer first by push notification and then by text. The developer began working on it immediately. 

The developer would have detected the issue quicker if there were any users trying to order pizzas earlier the morning of the incident. 
In the future, two to five "mock" users will simulate live user traffic at all times to ensure that errors that are dependent on certain user interaction are caught earlier. 

## Impact

Describe how the incident impacted internal and external users during the incident. Include how many support cases were raised.
For 16 minutes between 9:18 MST and 9:44 MST on 11/27/2024, users experience total inability to make orders on JWT pizza. 

This incident affected 5 customers, which was 100% of service users, who experienced an error message when clicking the "Pay Now" button on the payment page. 

## Timeline

All times are in UTC 

06:38: Developer clicked a suspicious button labelled "I'm ready for chaos!"

16:18: Alert notified developer that orders were failing at an unusual rate

16:19: Acknowledged alert

16:20: Analyzed metrics and noticed that NO orders were succeeding

16:31: Attempt to recreate bug

16:32: Ordering through UI results in a 500 error; 

response: {
    "message": "Failed to fulfill order at factory",
    "reportUrl": "*****"
}

16:33 Decided to use the value returned as "reportUrl" in the error response to implement fix - the URL is known to reset the target URL for Pizza Factory requests

16:33 Developer navigated to reportUrl and noted that a success message displayed

16:34 Metrics show that orders are succeeding again

16:35 Ordering from UI is working as normal

16:36 Monitoring

21:29 Tried ordering from UI again. Still working as normal

## Response

The developer received the alert at 16:18 and got online at 16:19. They went straight to the Grafana dashboard and noticed the failing orders. There were no delays, as the developer was clocked in at the time. 

# Root cause

The root cause of this incident was clicking on a button on a mysterious website that ran an automated process with unknown results. 

## Resolution

The service was restored when the developer used the provided reportUrl to automatically reverse the process that was run by the attacker. The incident was deemed over when orders could be made from the website manually AND metrics showed less than 0.03 rate of erroring orders.

# Prevention

The root cause of this issue was trusting BYU to not have malicious intentions towards the site.

In another incident, the developer followed the detailed instructions of a BYU professor and introduced code into the production environment that allowed admins to accidentally "turn off" ordering using an endpoint known as "chaos". The root cause of this issue was the same. 

# Action items

1. Block BYU websites on all company computers
